README.celo.md, before:

### How to build geth for Mac OS

1. `make -j geth` or,
2. `celotooljs geth build` ([celotooljs](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/tree/master/packages/celotool))

### How to build geth for Android

`make -j android` will produce the binary in `build/bin/geth.aar`

You might have to provide the path to ANDROID_NDK
`ANDROID_NDK=/usr/local/Caskroom/android-ndk/18/android-ndk-r18/ make android -j`

then `cp build/bin/geth.aar <celo-monorepo>/node_modules/@celo/geth/build/bin/geth.aar` testing the new geth.aar binary. Note that running `yarn` in <celo-monorepo> will overwrite this.

### How to test geth

1. `make -j test` - this runs, primarily, the unittests which came  from go-ethereum open-source package. To run an individual test, say tests for `eth/downloader.go`, run `build/env.sh go run build/ci.go test ./eth/downloader`
2. `packages/protocol $ ./ci_test.sh` - this contains a few basic Celo-specific tests like transferring Celo $ and Celo Gold. Customize the [Geth dir](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/master/packages/celotool/geth_tests/constants.sh#L13) to run these tests against your local Geth node.


### How to run/interact with geth

Use [Celotooljs](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/tree/master/packages/celotool) for the most high-level Celo-specific commands related to Geth.


### List of major changes we have made to Geth

1. [Transfer Precompiled Contract](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/pull/75)
2. [CeloLatestSync Mode](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/pull/62)

(This section is incomplete)

Commit message:

Add documentation on how to call smart contracts from Geth

README.celo.md, after:

### How to build geth for Mac OS

1. `make -j geth` or,
2. `celotooljs geth build` ([celotooljs](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/tree/master/packages/celotool))

### How to build geth for Android

`make -j android` will produce the binary in `build/bin/geth.aar`

You might have to provide the path to ANDROID_NDK
`ANDROID_NDK=/usr/local/Caskroom/android-ndk/18/android-ndk-r18/ make android -j`

then `cp build/bin/geth.aar <celo-monorepo>/node_modules/@celo/geth/build/bin/geth.aar` testing the new geth.aar binary. Note that running `yarn` in <celo-monorepo> will overwrite this.

### How to test geth

1. `make -j test` - this runs, primarily, the unittests which came  from go-ethereum open-source package. To run an individual test, say tests for `eth/downloader.go`, run `build/env.sh go run build/ci.go test ./eth/downloader`
2. `packages/protocol $ ./ci_test.sh` - this contains a few basic Celo-specific tests like transferring Celo $ and Celo Gold. Customize the [Geth dir](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/blob/master/packages/celotool/geth_tests/constants.sh#L13) to run these tests against your local Geth node.


### How to run/interact with geth

Use [Celotooljs](https://github.com/celo-org/celo-monorepo/tree/master/packages/celotool) for the most high-level Celo-specific commands related to Geth.


### Calling Smart Contracts from geth

Sometimes, you want to call a smart contract to fetch some data from the blockchain or modify the state. Here's a small primer on how to do that.

#### What you need

1. [`EVM`](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/master/core/vm/evm.go#L108) object
2. Location of the contract `contractAddress` - either the contract is pre-compiled and deployed at a [fixed location](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/master/params/protocol_params.go#L107) or the location is passed as a geth command-line parameter.
3. Function selector - The function signature like `balanceOf(address)` is hashed and trimmed to get a function selector, see an [example](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/c7e03ac465dbe8b8c8b70fa09aac267b7d624d19/core/state_transition.go#L328).
4. ABI - Combining the function selector and arguments converted to ABI gives you the full `transactiondata`. This [blog post](https://medium.com/@hayeah/how-to-decipher-a-smart-contract-method-call-8ee980311603) is a good introduction. Here's how we [implement](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/c7e03ac465dbe8b8c8b70fa09aac267b7d624d19/core/state_transition.go#L346-L362) it
5. Choose the caller. Set the required caller `caller := vm.AccountRef(common.HexToAddress("0x0" /* caller address */))`. Depending on the call code, the address might have to fulfill a specific criteria or any address might work.

#### Make the call

If the call is view-only and won't modify the state, use `evm.StaticCall`. Signature is `returnValue, leftoverGas, err := evm.StaticCall(caller, contractAddress, transactionData, gasLimit)`. If we are calling random untrusted functions, pass a reasonable `gasLimit` since `gasPrice` for view calls is 0.

Example of a view call: [balanceOf](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/c7e03ac465dbe8b8c8b70fa09aac267b7d624d19/core/state_transition.go#L233)

If the call is state-modifying then use `evm.Call`. Signature is `ret, leftoverGas, err := evm.Call(caller, contractAddress, transactionData, gasLimit, moneyToTransfer)`. We can, in principle, pass the full gas as the gas limit here since `gasPrice` for non-view calls is not 0, so, the user will end up paying the price for these calls.

Example of a state-modifying call: [credit/debit Stable Token balance](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/blob/c7e03ac465dbe8b8c8b70fa09aac267b7d624d19/core/state_transition.go#L268)

### List of major changes we have made to Geth

1. [Transfer Precompiled Contract](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/pull/75)
2. [CeloLatestSync Mode](https://github.com/celo-org/geth/pull/62)

(This section is incomplete)
