docs/docs/_getting-started/dev-mode.md, before:

---
title: Dev mode
sort_key: B
---

Geth has a development mode that sets up a single node Ethereum test network with options optimized for developing on local machines. You enable it with the `--dev` argument.

Starting geth in dev mode does the following:

-   Initializes the data directory with a testing genesis block
-   Sets max peers to 0
-   Turns off discovery by other nodes
-   Sets the gas price to 0
-   Uses the Clique PoA consensus engine with which allows blocks to be mined as-needed without excessive CPU and memory consumption
-   Uses on-demand block generation, producing blocks when transactions are waiting to be mined

## Start Geth in Dev Mode

You can specify a data directory to maintain state between runs using the `--datadir` option, otherwise, databases are ephemeral and in-memory:

```shell
mkdir test-chain-dir
```

For this guide, start geth in dev mode, and enable [RPC](../_rpc/server.md) so you can connect other applications to geth. For this guide, we use Remix, the web-based Ethereum IDE, so also allow its domains to accept cross-origin requests.

```shell
geth --datadir test-chain-dir --rpc --dev --rpccorsdomain "https://remix.ethereum.org,http://remix.ethereum.org"
```

Connect to the IPC console on the node from another terminal window:

```shell
geth attach <IPC_LOCATION>
```

Once geth is running in dev mode, you can interact with it in the same way as when geth is running in other ways.

For example, create a test account:

```shell
> personal.newAccount()
```

And transfer ether from the coinbase to the new account:

```shell
> eth.sendTransaction({from:eth.coinbase, to:eth.accounts[1], value: web3.toWei(0.05, "ether")})
```

And check the balance of the account:

```shell
> eth.getBalance(eth.accounts[1])
```

If you want to test your dapps with a realistic block time use the `--dev.period` option when you start dev mode with the `--dev.period 14` argument.

## Connect Remix to Geth

With geth now running, open <https://remix.ethereum.org>. Compile the contract as normal, but when you deploy and run a contract, select _Web3 Provider_ from the _Environment_ dropdown, and add "http://127.0.0.1:8545" to the popup box. Click _Deploy_, and interact with the contract. You should see contract creation, mining, and transaction activity.

Commit message:

Overwrite developer genesis block period with flag value (#2043)
* Overwrite developer genesis block period with flag value

* Update docs related to --dev

* Nit fix indentation

* Nit correct docs line

* Simplify usage for general cases

* Nit: update text for remix instructions

* Remove superfluous closing parentheses

docs/docs/_getting-started/dev-mode.md, after:

---
title: Dev mode
sort_key: B
---

Geth has a development mode that sets up a single node Ethereum test network with options optimized for developing on local machines. You enable it with the `--dev` argument.

Starting geth in dev mode does the following:

-   Initializes the data directory with a testing genesis block
-   Sets max peers to 0
-   Turns off discovery by other nodes
-   Sets the gas price to 0
-   Uses the Clique PoA consensus engine with which allows blocks to be mined as-needed without excessive CPU and memory consumption
-   By default produces a block per second
    -   To instead produce blocks on-demand when transactions are waiting to be mined, set `--dev.period 0`

## Start Geth in Dev Mode

You can specify a data directory to maintain state between runs using the `--datadir` option, otherwise, databases are ephemeral and in-memory:

```shell
geth --dev
```

Optionally specify `--dev.period` if a block period other than 1 per second is desired.

Whether run ephemerally or with a persistent data directory, this uses the hard-coded developer account `0x47e172f6cfb6c7d01c1574fa3e2be7cc73269d95` to configure the validator and tx fee recipient. Note that currently dev mode does not function properly when setting the validator and tx fee recipient params to accounts other than the hard-coded developer account.

### Example with Remix

For this guide, start geth in dev mode as described above, and enable [RPC](../_rpc/server.md) so you can connect other applications to geth. For this guide, we use Remix, the web-based Ethereum IDE, so also allow its domains to accept cross-origin requests.

```shell
geth --dev --datadir test-chain-dir
geth --dev --datadir test-chain-dir --http --http.corsdomain "https://remix.ethereum.org,http://remix.ethereum.org"
```

Connect to the IPC console on the node from another terminal window:

```shell
geth attach <IPC_LOCATION>
```

Once geth is running in dev mode, you can interact with it in the same way as when geth is running in other ways.

For example, create a test account:

```shell
> personal.newAccount()
```

And transfer ether from the coinbase to the new account:

```shell
> eth.sendTransaction({from:eth.coinbase, to:eth.accounts[1], value: web3.toWei(0.05, "ether")})
```

And check the balance of the account:

```shell
> eth.getBalance(eth.accounts[1])
```

If you want to test your dapps with a realistic block time use the `--dev.period` option when you start dev mode with the `--dev.period 14` argument.

#### Connect Remix to Geth

With geth now running, open <https://remix.ethereum.org>. Compile the contract as normal, but when you deploy and run a contract, select _Custom -- External Http Provider_ from the _Environment_ dropdown, and add "http://127.0.0.1:8545" to the popup box. Click _Deploy_, and interact with the contract. You should see contract creation, mining, and transaction activity.
