consensus/istanbul/backend/announce.md, before:

# Celo Announce Protocol

While here referred as a protocol by itself, Announce is technically a subset of the Istanbul protocol, on the [RLPx] transport, that facilitates Validators to privately discover the `eNodeURL` of other Validators in the network, using the underlying p2p eth network. This is used by Istanbul to have direct connections between Validators, speeding up the consensus phase of block generation.

It is important to note that a validator's `eNodeURL` is never shared among third parties, but directly published to specific peers. Therefore it is allowed for a validator to publish different external facing `eNodeURL` values to different validator peers.

## Terminology

For the purpose of this specification, certain terms are used that have a specific meaning, those are:

* Full node
* Validator
* Nearly Elected Validator
* eNodeURL

### Full Node

A Full Node is a Celo node fully operating in the Celo p2p network.

### Validator

A Validator is a [FullNode] that has been started with the ability to produce blocks, even if it has not yet been elected. In the geth program,
this is equivalent as being started with the `--mine` param.

### Nearly Elected Validator (NEV)

A node is a Nearly Elected Validator (NEV) if and only if:

1) It is a [Validator]
2) It is in the result set from calling `ElectNValidatorSigners` with `additionalAboveMaxElectable = 10`

In loose terms, it means it's a validator that has a good chance of becoming an elected validator in the following epoch.

### eNodeURL

An `eNodeURL` has the following format:

`enode://<hex node id>@<IP/hostname>:<tcp port>?discport=<udp discovery port>`

Where `<hex node id>` is the node's serialized and hex encoded ecdsa public key. The URL parameter `discport` should only be specified if the udp discovery port differs from the tcp port.

Some example `eNodeURLs` (with partially elided hex encoded public keys):

\```
enode://517318.......607ff3@127.0.0.1:34055
enode://e5e2fdf.......348ce8@127.0.0.1:33503?discport=22042
\```

## Basic Operation

When a validator is close to being elected ([NearlyElectedValidator]), it starts periodically sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages through the p2p network. These message are regossipped by nodes, and validators reply with a direct message to the originator with an [eNodeCertificateMsg], holding their `eNodeURL`. The initial [queryEnodeMsg] contained the origin validator's `eNodeURL` encrypted with the destination public key, therefore after the direct reply, both validators are aware of each others' `eNodeURL`.

### Keeping eNodeURL's up to date

To ensure that validator `eNodeURL` tables don't get stale, each validator's `eNodeURL` is paired with a version number, which is both attached to the origin [queryEnodeMsg], and in the [eNodeCertificateMsg] reply. Validators should ignore enodeurl from versions older than the highest known one. The current convention used is that versions are unix timestamps from the moment of the update.

### Minimizing network traffic

In order to reduce the amount of message flooding, there's a third type of message: the [versionCertificateMsg]. Periodically (or when it's updated by the validator operators) a validator will update its version, and gossip through the network a VersionCertificateMsg holding only its own new version.

When a node (every full node in the network) receives a [versionCertificateMsg], it will update the highest known versions according to the certificates, and regossip a VersionCertificateMsg holding only the version certificates that were new to it.

This allows every validator to have an idea of what the highest known version is for every other validator's `eNodeURL`, and in the next query only request for those that are stale.

### Proxy agnosticism

The announce protocol itself is agnostic to the concept of proxies, it cares only for the sharing of `<validator address, validator eNodeUrl>` tuples. It is the proxy implementation's responsibility to ensure the correct behavior of this specification.

### p2p connection management

Wether a validator opens a connection or not against another validator is not in the scope of this spec, but only how and when should the protocol messages should be sent, replied and regossipped. For example, it IS part of the spec what messages should be sent to a newly connected peer or validator peer.

## Protocol Messages (RLP)

// add types with the RLP nomenclature

### queryEnodeMsg (0x12)

`[[dest_address: B_20, encrypted_enode_url: B], version: P, timestamp: P]`

- `dest_address`: the destination validator address this message is querying to.
- `encrypted_enode_url`: the origin's `eNodeURL` encrypted with the destination public key.
- `version`: the current announce version for the origin's `eNodeURL`.
- `timestamp`: a message generation timestamp, used to bypass hash caches for messages.

Max amount of encrypted node urls is 2 * size(set of [NearlyElectedValidator]).

### enodeCertificateMsg (0x17)

`[enode_url: B, version: P]`

- `enode_url`: the origin's plaintext `eNodeURL`.
- `version`: the current announce version for the origin's `eNodeURL`.

### versionCertificatesMsg (0x16)

`[[version: P, signature: B]]`

- `version`: the current highest known announce version for a validator (deduced from the signature), according to the peer that gossipped this message.
- `signature`: the signature for the version payload string (`'versionCertificate'|version`) by the emmitter of the certificate. Note that the address and public key can be deduced from this `signature`.

## Spec by node type

Note that validators are full nodes too, therefore they should follow the same rules as full nodes. This is specially important to not give away the status of the node as a validator.

### Full node (non validator) Spec

#### Peer handshake

During an inbound peer connection, the remote peer can send an [enodeCertificateMsg] to identify itself as a validator. This allows for preferential treatment for the p2p connection.

#### Peer registered

When a peer is registered, all highest known version certificates should be sent to the registered peer in a [versionCertificatesMsg].

#### Handling [queryEnodeMsg]

Messages received of this type should be only processed once.
Should be regossipped as is, unless another message from the same validator origin has been regossipped in the past 5 minutes.

#### Handling [enodeCertificateMsg]

[enodeCertificateMsg] should be ignored by non validators.

#### Handling [versionCertificatesMsg]

Messages received of this type should be only processed once.
When received, regossips a new [versionCertificatesMsg] with certificates that haven't been gossiped (identified by validator address only) in the past 5 minutes

#### Message spawning

Every 5 minutes it should regossip all the highest known version certificates for all the [NearlyElectedValidator]

### Validator Spec

#### Replying [queryEnodeMsg]

Should be replied with an [enodeCertificateMsg] if the origin is a validator and this validator is the destination, and if an already existing connection to the origin validator exists.

#### Receiving [enodeCertificateMsg]

Should update the highest known version to the one given, even if there's no version certificate for it known by this validator.

#### Query spawning

One minute (60 seconds) after a validator enters the set of [NearlyElectedValidator], it should start sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages to the network, for all other NEV validators that have a higher version `eNodeURL` than the one currently known.

Messages should be spaced at least 5 minutes (300 seconds) apart. A query for a specific `<validator, version>` tuple has a retry back off period. The `nth` attempt should be spaced from the previous one by:

```
timeoutMinutes = 1.5 ^ (min(n - 1, 5))
```

Optionally, the first ten (10) query messages can be spaced by at least 60 seconds and ignoring retry back off periods for unanswered queries. This is known as the `AggressiveQueryEnodeGossip`.

If the validator is no longer in the list of [NearlyElectedValidator] then it should stop sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages.

#### Version certificates spawning

When a node starts validating, it should generate and gossip a new [versionCertificateMsg]. After that, it should be renewed and regossipped every 5 minutes.

## Change Log

### Previous relevant PRs

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/816

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/873

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/893

[queryEnodeMsg]: #queryEnodeMsg-0x12
[versionCertificatesMsg]: #versionCertificatesMsg-0x16
[enodeCertificateMsg]: #enodeCertificateMsg-0x17
[NearlyElectedValidator]: #nearly-Elected-Validator-NEV
[Validator]: #validator
[FullNode]: #full-node

Commit message:

Add TODO 'add link for enode id'

consensus/istanbul/backend/announce.md, after:

# Celo Announce Protocol

While here referred as a protocol by itself, Announce is technically a subset of the Istanbul protocol, on the [RLPx] transport, that facilitates Validators to privately discover the `eNodeURL` of other Validators in the network, using the underlying p2p eth network. This is used by Istanbul to have direct connections between Validators, speeding up the consensus phase of block generation.

It is important to note that a validator's `eNodeURL` is never shared among third parties, but directly published to specific peers. Therefore it is allowed for a validator to publish different external facing `eNodeURL` values to different validator peers.

## Terminology

For the purpose of this specification, certain terms are used that have a specific meaning, those are:

* Full node
* Validator
* Nearly Elected Validator
* eNodeURL

### Full Node

A Full Node is a Celo node fully operating in the Celo p2p network.

### Validator

A Validator is a [FullNode] that has been started with the ability to produce blocks, even if it has not yet been elected. In the geth program,
this is equivalent as being started with the `--mine` param.

### Nearly Elected Validator (NEV)

A node is a Nearly Elected Validator (NEV) if and only if:

1) It is a [Validator]
2) It is in the result set from calling `ElectNValidatorSigners` with `additionalAboveMaxElectable = 10`

In loose terms, it means it's a validator that has a good chance of becoming an elected validator in the following epoch.

### eNodeURL

An `eNodeURL` is a string specifyng the location of an eNode in the p2p network (//TODO add link to what an enode is?), and it has the following format:

`enode://<hex node id>@<IP/hostname>:<tcp port>?discport=<udp discovery port>`

Where `<hex node id>` is the node's serialized and hex encoded ecdsa public key. The URL parameter `discport` should only be specified if the udp discovery port differs from the tcp port.

Some example `eNodeURLs` (with partially elided hex encoded public keys):

\```
enode://517318.......607ff3@127.0.0.1:34055
enode://e5e2fdf.......348ce8@127.0.0.1:33503?discport=22042
\```

## Basic Operation

When a validator is close to being elected ([NearlyElectedValidator]), it starts periodically sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages through the p2p network. These message are regossipped by nodes, and validators reply with a direct message to the originator with an [eNodeCertificateMsg], holding their `eNodeURL`. The initial [queryEnodeMsg] contained the origin validator's `eNodeURL` encrypted with the destination public key, therefore after the direct reply, both validators are aware of each others' `eNodeURL`.

### Keeping eNodeURL's up to date

To ensure that validator `eNodeURL` tables don't get stale, each validator's `eNodeURL` is paired with a version number, which is both attached to the origin [queryEnodeMsg], and in the [eNodeCertificateMsg] reply. Validators should ignore enodeurl from versions older than the highest known one. The current convention used is that versions are unix timestamps from the moment of the update.

### Minimizing network traffic

In order to reduce the amount of message flooding, there's a third type of message: the [versionCertificateMsg]. Periodically (or when it's updated by the validator operators) a validator will update its version, and gossip through the network a VersionCertificateMsg holding only its own new version.

When a node (every full node in the network) receives a [versionCertificateMsg], it will update the highest known versions according to the certificates, and regossip a VersionCertificateMsg holding only the version certificates that were new to it.

This allows every validator to have an idea of what the highest known version is for every other validator's `eNodeURL`, and in the next query only request for those that are stale.

### Proxy agnosticism

The announce protocol itself is agnostic to the concept of proxies, it cares only for the sharing of `<validator address, validator eNodeUrl>` tuples. It is the proxy implementation's responsibility to ensure the correct behavior of this specification.

### p2p connection management

Wether a validator opens a connection or not against another validator is not in the scope of this spec, but only how and when should the protocol messages should be sent, replied and regossipped. For example, it IS part of the spec what messages should be sent to a newly connected peer or validator peer.

## Protocol Messages (RLP)

// add types with the RLP nomenclature

### queryEnodeMsg (0x12)

`[[dest_address: B_20, encrypted_enode_url: B], version: P, timestamp: P]`

- `dest_address`: the destination validator address this message is querying to.
- `encrypted_enode_url`: the origin's `eNodeURL` encrypted with the destination public key.
- `version`: the current announce version for the origin's `eNodeURL`.
- `timestamp`: a message generation timestamp, used to bypass hash caches for messages.

Max amount of encrypted node urls is 2 * size(set of [NearlyElectedValidator]).

### enodeCertificateMsg (0x17)

`[enode_url: B, version: P]`

- `enode_url`: the origin's plaintext `eNodeURL`.
- `version`: the current announce version for the origin's `eNodeURL`.

### versionCertificatesMsg (0x16)

`[[version: P, signature: B]]`

- `version`: the current highest known announce version for a validator (deduced from the signature), according to the peer that gossipped this message.
- `signature`: the signature for the version payload string (`'versionCertificate'|version`) by the emmitter of the certificate. Note that the address and public key can be deduced from this `signature`.

## Spec by node type

Note that validators are full nodes too, therefore they should follow the same rules as full nodes. This is specially important to not give away the status of the node as a validator.

### Full node (non validator) Spec

#### Peer handshake

During an inbound peer connection, the remote peer can send an [enodeCertificateMsg] to identify itself as a validator. This allows for preferential treatment for the p2p connection.

#### Peer registered

When a peer is registered, all highest known version certificates should be sent to the registered peer in a [versionCertificatesMsg].

#### Handling [queryEnodeMsg]

Messages received of this type should be only processed once.
Should be regossipped as is, unless another message from the same validator origin has been regossipped in the past 5 minutes.

#### Handling [enodeCertificateMsg]

[enodeCertificateMsg] should be ignored by non validators.

#### Handling [versionCertificatesMsg]

Messages received of this type should be only processed once.
When received, regossips a new [versionCertificatesMsg] with certificates that haven't been gossiped (identified by validator address only) in the past 5 minutes

#### Message spawning

Every 5 minutes it should regossip all the highest known version certificates for all the [NearlyElectedValidator]

### Validator Spec

#### Replying [queryEnodeMsg]

Should be replied with an [enodeCertificateMsg] if the origin is a validator and this validator is the destination, and if an already existing connection to the origin validator exists.

#### Receiving [enodeCertificateMsg]

Should update the highest known version to the one given, even if there's no version certificate for it known by this validator.

#### Query spawning

One minute (60 seconds) after a validator enters the set of [NearlyElectedValidator], it should start sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages to the network, for all other NEV validators that have a higher version `eNodeURL` than the one currently known.

Messages should be spaced at least 5 minutes (300 seconds) apart. A query for a specific `<validator, version>` tuple has a retry back off period. The `nth` attempt should be spaced from the previous one by:

```
timeoutMinutes = 1.5 ^ (min(n - 1, 5))
```

Optionally, the first ten (10) query messages can be spaced by at least 60 seconds and ignoring retry back off periods for unanswered queries. This is known as the `AggressiveQueryEnodeGossip`.

If the validator is no longer in the list of [NearlyElectedValidator] then it should stop sending [queryEnodeMsg] messages.

#### Version certificates spawning

When a node starts validating, it should generate and gossip a new [versionCertificateMsg]. After that, it should be renewed and regossipped every 5 minutes.

## Change Log

### Previous relevant PRs

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/816

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/873

https://github.com/celo-org/celo-blockchain/pull/893

[queryEnodeMsg]: #queryEnodeMsg-0x12
[versionCertificatesMsg]: #versionCertificatesMsg-0x16
[enodeCertificateMsg]: #enodeCertificateMsg-0x17
[NearlyElectedValidator]: #nearly-Elected-Validator-NEV
[Validator]: #validator
[FullNode]: #full-node
